<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Creating a Modular App

> > Author Notes:
When you create larger apps, it's a good idea to break the functionality into pieces called modules. It makes the application easier to create and maintain. It's a little harder, but in the long run you'll be better off learning to program with components. If you want to create vue projects wihtout components, make sure you take a peek at this course.

---

## Working with Modules

- Require [build tools][1]
- Startup-code
- Import modules

> > Author Notes:

1. Because JavaScript current versions of JavaScript aren't designed to be modular, we have to use tools that allow us to work in this manner. By far the most popular tool to use for this today is called webpack. How it works is a little outside the scope for this course, but if you want to learn how to work with it, make sure you check out [this course][2].

1. You also need some code to start up the application, this is sometimes called bootstrapping the application. The code for that is similar to the code we've already used.

1. Working with modules means working with different files, so you'll need to use import statements to pull them from one file to another.

---
## Bootstrap Code

```
import Vue from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';

var vm = new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  render: h => h(App)
})
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" contenteditable="true" style="width: 50%;" -->

- No data
- `render` property

> > Author Notes:
Here's what the code for the bootstrap application looks like, you can see the import statements as well as our Vue constructor.

1. Something to note here is that the booststrap code doesn't have any data. It doesn't need it because it's all inside your components.

1. The render property gets passed a function that loads the Application that you imported with the import statement above. The format of this import statements is commonjs, so if you look online for samples you might see a slightly different format that does the same thing called AMD.

```
render: (function (h) {
  return h(App);
});
```

---
## Our Module

```
<template><div></div></template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'MainApp',
  data() { return { title: 'Appointment' } }
} //default
</script>
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" contenteditable="true" style="width: 70%;" -->

- `<template>` with single element
- Export `<script>`
- `data()` with return

> > Author Notes:
1. When you use a module, you create a template tag and place your HTML in there. Inside that template, there has to be a single container tag and your template will go inside that main container. You'll get an error if you try to use more than one.

1. Because this is a module, it needs to export information that gets imported into the startup code. The export statement goes in a script with an object that looks a bit different than in our previous template. We don't need to specify an element to target because we already know that the template code is what is going to be used. There's also usually a name property to identify the module. That will make it easy to identify the modules when you use the Vue.js debugger.

1. Data is a method and you'll normally see it written like this. This is ES6 javascript, but it's just like a normal method. Inside, you have the variables that are available in our template.

```
data: function data() {
  return {
    title: 'Appointment'
  };
}
```

---

## Links
- [_Webpack Deep Dive_ with Kent Dodds][3]
- GitHub
  - [Start][4], [Finished][5], [Changes][6]

[1]:	https://www.linkedin.com/learning/webpack-deep-dive?trk=insiders_6787408_learning
[2]:	https://www.linkedin.com/learning/webpack-deep-dive?trk=insiders_6787408_learning
[3]:	https://www.linkedin.com/learning/webpack-deep-dive?trk=insiders_6787408_learning
[4]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/02_02b
[5]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/02_02e
[6]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/compare/02_01e...02_02e
