<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Application Lifecycle

> > Author Notes: In Vue.js like in many other frameworks and application goes through a series of steps as it is created. These are called lifecycles and Vue allows you perform different actions throughout this lifecycle.

---
## Instance Lifecycle Hooks

<p class="fragment" style="width: 80%; line-height: 100%;">

<code class="code-info">beforeCreate</code>
<code class="code-info">created</code>
<code class="code-info">mounted</code>
<code class="code-info">beforeUpdate</code>
<code class="code-info">updated</code>
<code class="code-info">beforeDestroy</code>
<code class="code-info">destroyed</code></p>

<p class="fragment">Perfect for `AJAX` requests/http `verbs`</p>


> > Author Notes:

1. Here's a list of the Lifecycle hooks you can use to do things in your application

1. These are perfect for performing AJAX operations and other http requests so we can load content at a certain point so that it become available to our application. In our case, we're going to want to use the `created` method.

---

<iframe style="width:-webkit-fill-available !important; height:-webkit-fill-available !important" src="https://vuejs.org/images/lifecycle.png">

> > Author Notes:
Let's take a look at the different methods visually. You can find this graphic and more information about the different lifecycle methods at [this URL](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/instance.html#Instance-Lifecycle-Hooks (overlay)

This way we can ask a server for our data after the application has been initialized, but before we start dealing with the replacement of the html element that our application is going to take over.

## Exercise

- We'll need to move the data from our apts variable and use the created lifecycle hook in our app. Let's start by cutting the data out of here and before we move it, I'm going to go to the [JSON Editor Online][1] site so that you can see the structure of the data a bit better.

```
created: function() {

  $.getJSON('./builds/appointments.json')
    .done(info => {
      this.theAppointments = info;
  }); //getJSON

}, //created  
```

We'll add the created property into our data. Now I'm going to be creating a local file for this data, but you can just as easily read this from an API by using an address that starts with `http://` right here. We're going to pass that data into a variable that I'm going to call theAppointments, so I'll need to update my component to use that variable.

`theAppointments: []`

When the AJAX call loads that data it will use an array, so I'll declare it as an array. One of the libraries our page uses is jQuery, so we can use the simpler jQuery getJSON function to get the data. I'm using a few libraries in this course to make things easier and focus on Vue.js code.

Because we're going to be using a file and we're managing things through Webpack, we're going to have to import this file. in the main.js file. That way when we build the app, it will copy this file into our builds folder, which we create when we run the `npm run build` command on the terminal.

You don't have to do this if you're just linking to an http address.

- Now, let's create a file, I'm going to call it appointments.json and paste our data.

---

## Links
- [Lifecycle hooks][2]
- [JSON Editor Online][3]
- GitHub
  - [Start][4], [Finished][5], [Changes][6]

[1]:	http://jsoneditoronline.org/
[2]:	https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/instance.html#Instance-Lifecycle-Hooks
[3]:	http://jsoneditoronline.org/
[4]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/02_04b
[5]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/02_04e
[6]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/compare/02_03e...02_04e
