<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Creating a Simple App

>> Author Notes: Let's get things started by working with a basic single file vue.js project. You can create an entire App in a single file, and although that's not a great option for larger apps, it's a great way to get a feel for how vue.js works.


---

## The Basics

- `https://unpkg.com/vue`
- `Vue` object
- Pass configuration {}

>> Author Notes: 

1. With any other simple framework, you start by loading up the library. You can download this file, but vue.js provides a copy of the code at this URL. All you have to do is use a script tag to include this into your page.

1. Once you do that, you'll have access to the Vue constructor, which gives you access to all of the features of the framework.

1. You'll need to use this view constructor to create an instance and you pass along a configuration object. In this object, you define different properties and methods for the application.

---
## Configuring Vue.js

```
var vm = new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  data: {
    title: 'Appointments'
  }
});
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" contenteditable="true" style="width: 50%;" -->

- Many properties
- `el` - DOM target
- `data` - reactive proxies

>> Author Notes: 
Here's what the script for a basic app looks like, you can see that we use the new keyword to store our app into a vm variable. That could be named anything you want, but it's customary to call it vm for view-model, which is what VUe.js focuses on the view, which is the display of information and the model, which is the data.

1. there's a lot of properties that you can use from the Vue object including items for data, a template, methods, watched variables, lifecycle callbacks and much more.

1. A common element is called el, which stands for elements. Applications replace an element on your HTML and this property identifies what that element is. It looks like CSS, so in this case we're looking for an HTML element with an ID of app.

1. The next element is the data property, this element creates copies or proxies of variables that you can use in templates. Changes to these variables are what's called reactive, which means that if the information in those variables changes, Vue will check to see if the DOM needs to be updated because of these changes for you. That's one of the cool things about this framework.


---
## Using Templates

```
<div id="app">
  <h1>{{title}}</h1>
</div>
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" contenteditable="true" style="width: 50%;" -->

- Target element `id`
- `{{title}}` - variables
- Rich templating

>> Author Notes: 
1. In terms of the template, you'll need to create the element that will hold the application. in our case, we're targeted and id in the previous example, so you need to create that in HTML

1. You can then use the data proxies...the variables you created and send them to your app.

1. Vue has a rich templating language, so in addition to just displaying the variables in our data, there's lots of things like events, if-then-else conditionals, loops and much more.

```

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>Building with Vue.js</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no">
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/vue"></script>
  </head>
  <body>

<div id="app">
  <h1>{{title}}</h1>
  <ul v-for="item in appointments">
    <li>
      <strong>{{ item.petName }}</strong>--{{ item.aptDate }}
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

<script>

var apts = [{"petName":"Spot","petOwner":"Constance Smith","aptDate":"2017-07-24 08:30","aptNotes":"This German Shepherd is having some back pain"},{"petName":"Goldie","petOwner":"Barot Bellingham","aptDate":"2017-07-22 15:50","aptNotes":"This Goldfish has some weird spots in the belly"},{"petName":"Mitten","petOwner":"Hillary Goldwyn","aptDate":"2017-07-21 9:15","aptNotes":"Cat has excessive hairballs"},{"petName":"Buffy","petOwner":"Hassum Harrod","aptDate":"2017-07-20 15:30","aptNotes":"This Chihuahua has not eaten for three days and is lethargic"}];

var vm = new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  data: {
    title: 'Appointments',
    appointments: apts
  }
});

  </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
---
 ## Links

- [Data Gist](https://gist.github.com/planetoftheweb/46426d47f21f2c9245bbe23f0fb834b5)
- [JSON Editor Online](http://jsoneditoronline.org/)
