<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Computed Properties

> > Author Notes:
Sometimes you need to transform the value of some data and there's a couple of ways you can do that. Let's take a look at how we can modify our dates with computed Properties.

---

## Expressions, Computed,<br>and Methods

- Modify `expression {{}}`
- `Computed properties`
- Re-evaluate on dependencies
- `Methods`

> > Author Notes:
1. So let's say that in our app, we wanted to play around with the date format. The first way we could do this is by modifying the expression. That's the thing between the two curly braces. You can use regular javascript in there to modify the variable or property you're outputting and that's perfectly fine, but it can create code that's a bit messy since if you wanted to use the same modified variable more than once, you'd have to use that same transformation again so it's hard to maintain.
1. A better option is to use a computed property, it's sort of a more formal way of modifying a property, but it generates a new variable based on the transformation you want to perform.
1. Computed properties re-evaluate only when their dependencies have changed, so it will update as long as you're using a computed property from the data section, but if you use something else, it may not update. We'll look at an example in a minute.
1. There's a third way to do this and that's through a separate configuration property called methods. We're going to cover that in a later video...and it's pretty similar to a computed property except that it doesn't generate a new variable, but it will cause re-calculations and re-draws when it is called.

# Exercise

Let's say we wanted to change the format of our date somehow. There's two ways of doing that, you can change the expression directly like this.

But that's inconvenient because if we wanted to use that same date in different places in our app, we'd have to add that code every time.

Let's create a computed property for our date, so that it shows the dates in a different format.

Now we have a different variable that has our new version of our date. It's based on our appointment date. Appointment date is a reactive property because we've defined it in our data section, so if something in our application causes that to change, our display will update.

Let's test this out by going to the console.

So you can see the aptDate changes. However if we specify that our computed attribute use a non reactive property.

Then the computed property will only be calculated once and will never change from the original value. This is one of the differences between computed properties and methods. Let's take a look at how we can look at that in the console.

We're going to use a library called moment.js that we've already installed, but we'll have to add it to our App.vue file

We'll also need to import it into our nested component.

So, computed properties gives you access to a property that be evaluated from and react to changes to another property.

---

## Links
- [Computed properties][1]
- GitHub
  - [Start][2], [Finished][3], [Changes][4]

[1]:	https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/computed.html
[2]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/03_04b
[3]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/03_04e
[4]:	https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/compare/03_03e...03_04e
