<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Events and Methods

>> Author Notes: In the last video, I showed you how events can modify the state of your application, but it's often more convenient to manage the functionality through methods that can trigger more complex actions. These actions can then trigger custom events in other components. Let's take a look at how that works.

---

## Emitting Events and Methods

- `v-model='name'` variable
- `methods` property
- `$emit('event', data)` events
- Catch `@event` in parent

>> Author Notes: You can add classes to your code in a few different ways

1. In order to read access values from input and other form fields, we need to add the v-model attribute to our form elements. This creates a two way data binding that stores the value of the data and gives you local access.

1. Methods are the way we can create more complex functionality within a component, so we can use events to trigger methods and handle more complex interactions in those methods.

1. A lot of times, the data or state will not live in the current component, so in order to modify an element, we'll need to use the $emit methods and trigger an event in a separate components.

1. We can then catch that event in the parent component using a custom event tag. We can then execute a local event to perform the task.

I think I'm making it sound more complicated than it is, so an example will really help you see what's happening.

---

## Links
- Github
  - [Start](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/04_02b), [Finished](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/04_02e), [Changes](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/compare/04_01e...04_02e)
