<!-- .slide: data-state="title" -->
# Vue.js Interface
Events and Methods

>> Author Notes: In the last video, I showed you how events can modify the state of your application, but it's often more convenient to manage the functionality through methods that can trigger more complex actions.

---

## Emitting Events and Methods

- `methods` property
- `$emit('event', data)` events
- `$on('event', something )`
- Events `v-on:type`/`@type`

>> Author Notes: You can add classes to your code in a few different ways

1. Methods are the way we can create more complex functionality within a component, so we can use events to trigger methods and handle more complex interactions.

1. A lot of times, the data or state will not live in the current component, so in order to modify an element, we'll need to use the $emit methods to will trigger an event in other components.

1. We can catch those events with the v-on command, which we can just shorten to the event name with an @ sign. We can also pass along some data if we need to.

1. The event needs to exist in the registered section of your tag, don't worry, we'll take a look at an example. That even can be assigned a separate event that needs to be triggered in the current component.

I think I'm making it sound more complicated than it is, so an example will really help you see what's happening.

---

## Links
- Github
  - [Start](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/04_02b), [Finished](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/tree/04_02e), [Changes](https://github.com/planetoftheweb/vueinterface/compare/04_01e...04_02e)
